# Limitations and Warnings

## Security

This project comes with some basic security configuration such as a 
firewall with firewalld, but remember that the security of your servers
is YOUR responsibility.

This project intentionally does NOT configure some security enhancements so as
to minimise the risk of users inadvertently locking themselves out of their own
servers.

You may want to also consider disabling root login, mandating SSH key based
authentication, adding SSH monitoring tools such as fail2ban and adding a
centralised logging server.

## Backups

This project does not set up backups. You should ensure that you have a robust
backup strategy in place that you check regularly.

## Load balancing

This project will work out of the box on small scale production environments
when using certbot, such as when the 'frontend app' and 'backend app' are
co-located (like the 'dev' environment), or when the 'frontend app' and
'backend app' are each provisioned to a separate host.

However, you will need to modify this project if you're using certbot, and you
want to horizontally scale to more hosts behind a load balancer. Production
certificates are set to be generated by running [certbot](https://certbot.eff.org)
in 'standalone' mode. This approach won't work if we have several servers behind
a load balancer, since a different server may respond to the LetsEncrypt challenge.

## Certificate Update Process

The certificates in the sample Ansible production environment are regenerated
with certbot in 'standalone' mode. This approach means the NGINX webserver gets
automatically stopped briefly around every 60 days. If this doesn't suit your
needs, consider using a different approach for generating production certificates.

## Automatic apt package updates

The 'base' role is set to configure `unattended-upgrades` to automatically install updates.
This should help ensure that servers are up to date, but unmanaged system updates
may introduce an element of risk and instability which may not be appropriate
for your use case.

If you'd like to disable automatic package updates, set
`base_install_updates_automatically` to `false` in `environments/prod/group_vars/all`. 

Keep in mind that some updates (such as kernel updates) require a reboot to take
effect. You still need to occasionally reboot the system to ensure that updates
are applied, `unattended-upgrades` won't take care of this for you.
