# Provisioning

## Overview

This project uses [Ansible](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/index.html)
to provision code and [Podman](https://podman.io/) to manage containers for
the dev environment.

All hosts are [Ubuntu 24.04 (Jammy Jellyfish)](https://releases.ubuntu.com/24.04/).

## Development Environment

The local development environment is a multi-container configuration using Podman and the
[Ansible Local](https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/provisioning/ansible_local.html)
provisioner. These containers are defined as follows:

* The **backend** container has the 'backend' django app
* The **frontend** container has the 'frontend' react app
* The **db** container has the postgresql database
* The **provisioner** container is used to run the ansible provisioning for the other
  containers. It is also where the 'frontend' app minified build is generated by
  npm during provisioning, and where the dev server for the 'frontend' app can
  be started.
  
### Provisioning the Dev Environment

To provision the development environment, run:
```
$ cd my_project
$ ./provision_dev_environment.sh
```

## Production Environment

This project includes a sample production environment. All hosts that are added
to the inventory should be running [Ubuntu 24.04 (Jammy Jellyfish)](https://releases.ubuntu.com/24.04/). 
See the README at `provisioning/environments/prod/README.txt` for more.

You are strongly advised to use [ansible-vault](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/vault.html),
and remember to never add sensitive information such as production passwords or
keys into version control in plain text!
  
### Provisioning the Production Environment

The ansible includes a `deploy_check` role to encourage you to follow some best
practices when deploying this project. Before you run a deploy to the production
environment, you should ensure that:

* There are no uncommitted changes in your working directory
* You have added a git tag with the release version

If you haven't followed these steps, you will be prompted by the `deploy_check`
role when running the ansible playbook. This role will also prompt you to
confirm that the git tag it finds is what you expect.

The `ansible-playbook` command to deploy to production will vary depending on
how your production environment is configured. You may also need to update
`ansible.cfg` depending on the environment. For example, you may need to set
`host_key_checking = no` if using password authentication (although you're 
encouraged to use SSH keys instead).

An example for provisioning to the production environment using the
**provisioner** VM:

```
$ podman compose exec provisioner bash
$ source ~/provision_venv/bin/activate
$ ansible-playbook playbook.yml --inventory environments/prod/inventory --user <myuser> --private-key <my-private-key>
```

You can also run the ansible directly from your host machine if you desire:

```
# set up the virtualenv
$ python3 -m venv my_provisioning_venv
$ source my_provisioning_venv/bin/activate
(my_provisioning_venv) $ cd provisioning
(my_provisioning_venv) $ pip install -r requirements.txt
# install ansible galaxy roles:
(my_provisioning_venv) $ ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml
# run the deploy:
(my_provisioning_venv) $ ansible-playbook playbook.yml --inventory environments/prod/inventory --user <myuser> --private-key <my-private-key>
```

If you run the ansible directly from your host machine, you'll need to also install npm.
